# Basics

## Tmux Key Binds !!IMPORTANT!!!
- Tmux is used for the server console.
- Tmux keybinds are weird, because you need to press 2 keybinds after another:
  **CTRL + B (let go) D**
  - This will exit from the tmux window without stopping the running server. 

---

# Backup Servers
- Literally just this: https://codeberg.org/squidnose-code/Backups-RSYNC-TUI
- Manges MCserver backups.
- More Info in that section.

## Periodic Backups
- There 2 Types of periodic backups:
  - Mirror (Will overwrite the previous backup)
  - Timestamp (Will make another backup using timestamps)
- Allows for periodic backups on a: Daily, Weekly, Monthly bases. 

## Manual Backups
- You can also make a manual backup.
- You will be prompted to choose where to run the backup:
  - In the console you are running MCserverTUI in. (Simple)
  - Or in a Tmux window (Useful for big servers and long backups)

## Restore from backup
- You can also restore from a previous backup
  - The steps are very similar to the Manual setup
  - You just have to select what backups to restore from
  - It is advised to make a backups of the existing server before restoring from a previous backup. 

---

# More Scripts

    Common Scripts that are called from other scripts:

- crontab-line-by-line-editor.sh
  - Reads your crontab line by line.
  - Offers the ability to select what lines to remove.
- LSR_edit_server_files.sh
  - A file browser/editor.
  - Usefull for removing or adding files manually. 
- manual-downloader.sh
  - Manages manual download entries into json. 
  - Downloads content based on the entries.
- modrinth-autodownloader.py 
  - Modrinth collection downloader in python. 
  - This is not my code, i used: https://github.com/aayushdutt/modrinth-collection-downloader
- modrinth-downloader.sh
  - modrith-downloader.sh is a TUI front for modrinth-autodownloader.py.
  - can recive --name or -n paramter.
- server_properties_editor.sh
  - Edits server.properties of a MCserver.
  - Does not make a new server.properties. This must be generated by the server jar. 
  - can recive --name or -n paramter.

