# What to Run?
Explanation of menu optoins

# Tmux Key Binds !!IMPORTANT!!!
- For optimal server manipulation, it is neccery to understand the default keybinds of tmux
- Tmux is used for the server console.
- Tmux keybinds are wierd, because you need to press 2 keybinds after another:
  **CTRL + B (let go) D**
  - This will exit from the tmux window without stoping the running program. 

---

## new-server
- Walks you through the procces of setting up a new server
- Curently supported MC loader types are:
  - Vanilla
  - Fabric
  - Forge
  - Neoforge
  - Paper
  - Purpur
  - Velocity

### Explanations?
- Modrinth colection ID is ment for moded servers and is not manditory.
  - The ID comes from the URL adress, example:
  - https://modrinth.com/collection/ziTsdV9j
  - where the ID is: ziTsdV9j
  
- Saves info into config file located in the servers directory
  - server-version.conf
  - saves: MC version number, Loader Type, Modrinth colection ID
  
- Modrinth autodownloader works by using the modrinth autodownloader
  - Automaticly installs and updates server mods.
  - It should work with any mod loader 
    
- MCjarfiles API - an automatic way to install server jar file 
    - Can be used for: Vanilla, Fabric, Forge, Neoforge, Paper, Purpur and Velocity(Proxy).
    - Vanilla can only download releases. 
      - For alphas, betas and snapshots you have to use the manual install URL
- Links(1.21.11 as example):
  -  Vanila release: https://mcjarfiles.com/api/get-jar/vanilla/release/1.21.11
  -  Paper:  https://mcjarfiles.com/api/get-jar/servers/paper/1.21.11
  -  Purpur:  https://mcjarfiles.com/api/get-jar/servers/purpur/1.21.11
  -  Fabric: https://mcjarfiles.com/api/get-jar/modded/fabric/1.21.11
  -  Forge: https://mcjarfiles.com/api/get-jar/modded/forge/1.21.11
  -  Neoforge: https://mcjarfiles.com/api/get-jar/modded/neoforge/1.21.11
  -  Velocity Latest*: https://mcjarfiles.com/api/get-latest-jar/proxies/velocity/
    - This is not for a specific version, it downloads the latest velocity version. 
    - Velocity allways downloads the latest version.
    - This is beacuse Velocity numbering has little to do with MC versions. 
  
    
- Choose max and min memory for server
  - you need to use either 1G or 1024M format (Example for 1 GB)
  - You dont need to enter any value, it works without it aswell.(If you dont, it turns un-stable)
  
- Automatic start on Reboot
  - Creates run.sh and autostart.sh (Located in MCserver dir)
  - run.sh has stores the Memory amount and the Jarfile name.
  - Autostart runs run.sh in a tmux window on boot.
  - Adds crontab entry that automaticly runs autostart.sh on boot.

---

## Manage Servers
- Offers tools to manage your exisitng server
- Manages Existing servers in ~/mcservers/ directory
- You are prompted to choose a server based on the direcotry names in ~/mcservers/

### What does it do?
Offers:
- **Open server console** - (tmux attach -t "SERVER_NAME")
- **Start server** - (Runs run.sh in new tmux window)
- **Stop server** - (Sends stop to server, then closes the tmux window)
- **Edit server.properties** - (each line is configurable, a text editor may be esier)
- **Update Server** - (Update server jar file and Modrinth Mods)
- **Edit server files** - (Uses my [[Linux-Script-Runner]](https://codeberg.org/squidnose-code/Linux-Script-Runner))
  - Opens Folders
  - Edits files
  - Modify .jar files:
    - replace .jar file from URL
    - rename .jar files
    - remove .jar files
- **Add or Configure Autostart Features** (using tmux and cron)
- **Add or Configure memory config** (edits run.sh)
- **Change server Name** (stops servers)

## Manage-Servers.sh - Equivalent commands
- Commands that the script runns and you can to. 
- usefull when MCserverTUI doenst work for you:
  - Open server console (replace $SERVER_NAME your server name): tmux attach -t "$SERVER_NAME" 
  - Edit the crontab file: crontab -e 

---

## backup_servers
- Literally just this: https://codeberg.org/squidnose-code/Backups-RSYNC-TUI
- Manges MCserver backups.

### Periodic Backups
- There 2 Types of periodic backups:
  - Mirror (Will delete previos backup)
  - Timestamp (Will add to previos backups using timestamps)
- Allows for periodic backups on a: Daily, Weekly, Mothly bases. 

### Manual bakcups
- You can also make a manual backup.
- You will be prompted to choose where to run the backup:
  - In the console you are running MCserverTUI in. (Simple)
  - Or in a Tmux window (Usefull for big servers and long backups)

### Restore from backup
- You can also restore from a previos backup
  - The steps are very similar to the Manual setup
  - You just have to select what backups to restore from
  - It is advised to make a backups of the existing server before resotring from a previos backup. 

---

### Tunneling-Services.sh
**Tunneling services are only needed for selfhosting or server hosting without a IPV4 ip adress**
- LocalToNet - Fast but paid (Supports x64, ARM and ARM64 all in Either Glibc or Musl)
- (Not done)playit.gg - Free but slow and Targeted by hackers. Offers premium options (Supports x64, i686, ARMv7 and ARM64 Glibc only, avalible as MC plugin)
- (Not done)telebit.io - Free, decetly fast but only Java servers (Unknown Architectural limitations)

---

## settings
- Settings and Logs 

### Logs
- Offers theese log files to open:
  - 
### watch_java
- lists all procces with the work "java" referenced
- Literally just: 
 - watch -n 1 "ps -ef | grep java"

### Crontab-Management.sh
- Crontab is used to start MCservers and Tunneling serivices.
- This script opens the crontab configuration file for manual intervention
- It asks for you to select a text editor
- opens user crontab using crontab -e

### Colors
- set-colors.sh
  - sets a color theme from presets
  - Uses newt colors as standard for whiptail
  - saves choice in colors.conf

---

# More scripts
- modrinth-autodownloader.py 
  - Modrinth colection downloader in python. 
  - This is not my code, i used: https://github.com/aayushdutt/modrinth-collection-downloader
- modrinth-downloader.sh
  - modrith-downloader.sh is a TUI front for modrinth-autodownloader.py 
  - can recive --name or -n paramter
- server_properties_editor.sh
  - Edits server.properties of a MCserver
  - Does not make a new server.properties. This must be generated by the server jar. 
  - can recive --name or -n paramter
